# Thematic Mapping Of Agricultural And Rural Research In Dagestan

Please cite this study if you use it in your research as follows:

Duman, Hakan. 2024. “Thematic Mapping Of Agricultural And Rural Research In Dagestan.” In _Kafkasya Araştırmaları - II_, edited by Oğuz Şimşek, Çağrı Akgün, and Çetin İzgi, 99–126. Ankara: Sonçağ Akademi.

[Full text of the study](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/387438077_THEMATIC_MAPPING_OF_AGRICULTURAL_AND_RURAL_RESEARCH_IN_DAGESTAN)

## Abstract

This study uses bibliometric methods, including thematic mapping, to
analyze agricultural and rural research on Dagestan, based on 90 studies
from the Web of Science database. The analysis reveals two key periods:
1985–2016, marked by limited thematic diversity focused on “Islam” and
“modernity,” and 2017–2023, characterized by thematic expansion into
areas such as agricultural practices, environmental sustainability, and
public health. Research activity surged post-2017, with a peak in 2018.

Key contributors, such as Dogeev GD and Gunya A, and journals like South
of Russia: Ecology Development and Arid Ecosystems, are highlighted.
Recurring themes include health behaviors, disease transmission, and
agricultural productivity, reflecting the region’s unique ecological and
social contexts. However, the lack of studies employing advanced
methodologies like artificial intelligence underscores a critical
research gap.

This work emphasizes Dagestan’s growing role in agricultural research,
providing a roadmap for innovative solutions to regional challenges,
fostering food security, and promoting environmental sustainability.

**Keywords:** R Programming, Bibliometrics, Caucasus, Dagestan,
Agriculture

**Note:** The bibliometric data was deleted due to property rights of the data. The data can be accessed on Web of Science using the filter provided below.

WOS filter: “(dagestan OR daghestan) AND (agriculture OR farming OR agribusiness OR rural OR countryside OR farmstead OR homestead OR horticulture OR crop OR livestock)”

## R Packages

This study used the R statistical environment, version 4.2.2, developed
by R Core Team ([2022](#ref-r-2022)). The tidyverse meta-package
(version 2.0.0) which consists of the dplyr ([Wickham, François, Henry,
Müller, & Vaughan, 2023](#ref-dplyr-2023-github)), ggplot2 ([Wickham,
2016](#ref-ggplot2-2016)), readr ([Wickham, Hester, & Bryan,
2024](#ref-readr-2024-github)) and tidyr ([Wickham, Vaughan, & Girlich,
2024](#ref-tidyr-2024-github)) packages, created by Wickham et al.
([2019](#ref-tidyverse-2019)), was used for data visualization,
manipulation and cleaning. General plot attributes were set using the ggthemes package (version 4.2.4) ([Arnold, 2021](#ref-ggthemes_2021)).
‘Bibliometrix’ (version 4.3.0) is used for bibliometric analysis ([Aria
& Cuccurullo, 2017](#ref-aria_bibliometrix_2017)), and the clipr package (version 0.8.0) was used for clipboard data operations ([Lincoln,
2022](#ref-clipr_2022)).

## Acknowledgements

This analysis adapted and modified code from various sources, such as
books, package manuals, vignettes, and GitHub repositories. The sources
that mainly utilized are cited as follows:

- Data preparing, manipulation, cleaning, and visualization: Wickham
  et al. ([2019](#ref-tidyverse-2019)), Wang, Cook, & Hyndman
  ([2020](#ref-tsibble-2020)), Wang & contibutors
  ([2024](#ref-tsibble-2024-github)), Wickham & contibutors
  ([2024](#ref-ggplot2-2024-github)), Wickham
  ([2016](#ref-ggplot2-2016)), Wickham, Hester, et al.
  ([2024](#ref-readr-2024-github)), Wickham, Vaughan, et al.
  ([2024](#ref-tidyr-2024-github))

- Conducting bibliometric analysis: Aria & Cuccurullo
  ([2017](#ref-aria_bibliometrix_2017)), Aria et al.
  ([2024](#ref-biblimetrixhomepage2024))

## Code References

Aria, M., & Cuccurullo, C. (2017). Bibliometrix: An r-tool for
comprehensive science mapping analysis. _Journal of Informetrics_.
<https://doi.org/10.1016/j.joi.2017.08.007>

Aria, M., Cuccurullo, C., Misuraca, M., Spano, M., Belfiore, A.,
D’Aniello, L., & Gnasso, A. (2024). Bibliometrix: Homepage and
tutorials. June 10, 2024, <https://www.bibliometrix.org/home/>

Arnold, J. B. (2021). _Ggthemes: Extra themes, scales and geoms for
’ggplot2’_. <https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=ggthemes> R package
version 4.2.4

Lincoln, M. (2022). _Clipr: Read and write from the system clipboard_.
<https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=clipr> R package version 0.8.0

R Core Team. (2022). _<span class="nocase">R: A Language and Environment
for Statistical Computing</span>_. Vienna, Austria: R Foundation for
Statistical Computing. <https://www.R-project.org/>

Wang, E., & contibutors. (2024). <span
class="nocase">tidyverts/tsibble</span>. June 2, 2025,
<https://github.com/tidyverts/tsibble>

Wang, E., Cook, D., & Hyndman, R. J. (2020). <span class="nocase">A new
tidy data structure to support exploration and modeling of temporal
data</span>. _Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics_,
_29_(3), 466–478. <https://doi.org/10.1080/10618600.2019.1695624>

Wickham, H. (2016). _<span class="nocase">ggplot2: Elegant Graphics for
Data Analysis</span>_. Springer-Verlag New York.
<https://ggplot2.tidyverse.org>

Wickham, H., Averick, M., Bryan, J., Chang, W., McGowan, L. D.,
François, R., … Yutani, H. (2019). <span class="nocase">Welcome to the
<span class="nocase">tidyverse</span></span>. _Journal of Open Source
Software_, _4_(43), 1686. <https://doi.org/10.21105/joss.01686>

Wickham, H., & contibutors. (2024). <span
class="nocase">tidyverse/ggplot2</span>. June 2, 2025,
<https://github.com/tidyverse/ggplot2>

Wickham, H., François, R., Henry, L., Müller, K., & Vaughan, D. (2023).
_<span class="nocase">dplyr: A Grammar of Data Manipulation</span>_.
<https://dplyr.tidyverse.org> R package version 1.1.4,
<https://github.com/tidyverse/dplyr>

Wickham, H., Hester, J., & Bryan, J. (2024). _<span
class="nocase">readr: Read Rectangular Text Data</span>_.
<https://readr.tidyverse.org> R package version 2.1.5,
<https://github.com/tidyverse/readr>

Wickham, H., Vaughan, D., & Girlich, M. (2024). _<span
class="nocase">tidyr: Tidy Messy Data</span>_.
<https://tidyr.tidyverse.org> R package version 1.3.1,
<https://github.com/tidyverse/tidyr>
